Hey in this video,
we're gonna find out why should we use Spring.
So Spring in a nutshell,
basically Spring is a very popular framework
for building enterprise Java applications.
When Spring first came out,
it was initially a simpler, lightweight alternative to J2EE.
They basically give you a large number of helper classes
to make enterprise development easier.
But now you may wonder, well, what about J2EE or Java EE?
And here they have client-side presentation.
They talk about server-side presentation
with JSP, servlets, XML, and web services.
They also discuss the idea of server-side business logic
using Enterprise JavaBeans, web services, and so on,
and all talking to a backend database.
And this all looks really good on paper and as developers,
we were very excited when we saw this, viewing it on paper,
but what happened is that when we actually got
into the implementation details, it was another story,
and I'll talk more about that in second.
All right, so how did J2EE grow up?
Well, in the early days, it started out really nice.
You had servlets, JSPs, back in 1999.
You also had Enterprise JavaBeans, Java Message Service,
and RMI, Remote Method Invocation,
and then over the years
they added more support for EJB with 1.3.
They added J2EE 1.4.
They added web services
and Java EE 5, they renamed it a bit
so it's Java Enterprise Edition 5.
They dropped the J2EE thing
and they added some ease of use for EJB 3, JPA,
JSF, JAXB, and JAX-WS or web services.
And then with EE 6 again, they pruned,
I mean they got rid of some stuff that didn't work,
mainly some of the EJB problems,
and also they made it easier to use so on and so forth.
They added support for CDI, Context Dependency Injection,
which is very similar to Spring
in version of control and dependency of injection.
And then finally in Java EE 7,
they added support for JMS version two,
Batch, Concurrency, Web Sockets, and so on.
So that's how J2EE grew up overtime.
So servlets and JSPs were the initial popular items
and then they started adding other things along the way.
Now, the one thing that they added along the way
was Enterprise JavaBeans and so EJB is like your cousin
or your family member that you just don't really like
because they just mess things up for everybody.
So the early versions of Enterprise JavaBeans
versions one and two were extremely complex to develop.
You had to create these XML deployment descriptors.
You had to define multiple interfaces
so like we have in this diagram here,
to create a bean class,
you had to have a home interface
and then a component interface
and you basically had three or four .java files
just for an actual bean implementation
so just a lot of work.
It was really clunky for a developer
to write all of this code.
It was very tedious and very error prone.
But once you finally got the bean developed and deployed it
and you deployed it in production,
then you were slapped with another problem,
poor performance, so these entity beans,
basically mappings between Java classes and database tables,
just awful slow, just terribly slow.
We actually had to do on one deployment,
we actually had to pull our code back out of production
and actually remove the EJB functionality
because it slowed everything down.
And so what happened overtime was that a lot of developers
started to continue to do J2EE,
but they actually would do it without Enterprise JavaBeans
and so this caught on with other development teams too
and pretty much a lot of folks were doing it.
So this one fellow Rod Johnson,
he actually wrote this great book
called J2EE Development without EJB.
So EJB was very popular at one point
and then it fell out of favor
and so he pushed that out
and they also started working on the Spring Framework
and so they released another book
Java Development with the Spring Framework.
So EJB was that bad cousin or that bad uncle
that you just didn't want in the family
because they messed it up for everybody.